hey folks it is September 19th and we're
here with a proto school weekly Carl we
just have a few quick updates today so
on the content development front I have
been working on our plan for integrating
ipfs camp content into proto school so
you'll find an issue in the notes that
you can follow if you'd like to join in
on that discussion I've gone through and
made some proposals for the content from
the course on understanding how ipfs
deals with violence and then that's a
process that I'll be continuing to go
through on each of the other each of the
other core courses at least although
there may be content from other forms of
presentations that we want to include
and then Joe you want to share what
you're up to on the content front sure
I've been working on I mean I start to
working on a new tutorial on run mutable
file system file API so it will be like
the equivalent to the the tutorial that
we already have for the mutable file
system but for the regular file API so
that's in progress there's a link also
if you want to add the link there Joe to
the issue look at that one in case
anybody wants to see what the what the
progress is like are with the planets
and then um Dan shields had found a bug
he submitted us a very specific Romney
answer to one of the lessons and it got
hung up in like it just wasn't
evaluating at all and returning an error
or a success message so I spent some
time looking into that with someone on
the ipfs team and we discovered that it
is indeed a protocol problem not an IP
FS problem um and it's something where
we should change the way that we're
doing our evaluation both in that
particular lesson there it's like a
conditional missing that we should
include but also we should do some work
under the hood so that we can
distinguish between this is an error
that's coming from ipfs or this is an
error that's coming from the code that
you wrote where you were missing the
parentheses or whatever or this the
function you wrote is not returning a
value at all which in
currently we have lessons that don't
require that when we don't need that we
don't need them to return something for
purposes of our validation so there are
a few different angles we can check it
from and Aleks will add a note in that
issue so that we can then tackle that
one but that was a good find and we'll
be with you soon to fix that one and
then no new chapters this week but we
have a couple of efforts underway in
terms of planning so there are there q3
okay arts we're working on scoring and
obviously we spent a bit of time working
on onboarding when we left yoga and in
gel so that is completely expected we
will get through everything that we had
planned but we've done a great job of
focusing on our our most pressing issues
and then q4 plans are in the works which
will include a lot of work to take the
content from my PFS camp and apply it
both in you know tutorial new tutorials
obtaining the existing tutorial content
etc um so there isn't there's a link
here to the draft of those okay ours if
anyone's interested and we can share
them officially once they're locked down
and then the one other thing I just
wanted to share which I will share my
screen for a moment is
[Music]
I just wanted to share a quick update I
took a minute to go through some of the
the metrics that Yoko and I added
earlier in the quarter with about like a
maybe a three week window of actual
results from them so just to kind of
share that what we're capable of doing
now we have now the ability to look at
stats like the completion of a lesson or
tutorial whether people are using that
reset code button past versus failed
attempts the wrong choices that they're
picking and multiple choice etc and so
we have a lot more functionality than we
used to and we're also sort of
protecting users a bit more by avoiding
Google Analytics so just a few things at
the moment this is just from August 21st
to September 17th but this data is from
so not a huge span but I just wanted to
show that we have a you know we have the
ability to track sort of our inbound
traffic how many visitors we're getting
new visitors etc we've been doing some
work to improve linking between proto
school and other Doc's so you'll see for
example we added a button on ipfs io to
encourage people to use proto school and
you can see what our main traffic
sources are a lot of it is the IP FS
website you're actually also the docs
website where we've done a lot of
increase linking github this may be from
you know repos on the files on the em FS
API for example where we would have also
dropped a link into proto school and as
you can see kind of where traffic is
coming in but another thing that's nice
that we can do now is look at what
people are choosing to click out to so
whether that's a link to specific
documentation in a lesson or these
resources pages that we have now at the
end of lessons we can see which of the
resources we've presented is most
interesting to people to go explore
further so if that and then this just a
sample of the kind of data we can
collect about a lesson and so what I was
expecting is that within a tutorial so
for example in the top right here you
see the blog tutorial and these are the
numbers of the lessons so this is what I
would expect that you
have like a bunch of people would finish
the first one fewer would finish the
second etc and the least or finish the
last one um
and then when I looked at the MF s
tutorial is very different now notice
that these aren't exactly in order but
this there's a huge drop-off here
between people who complete the first
lesson and people who complete the
second and and then there's also this
distinction which my theory right now is
that this is about having a text-based
lesson it's the first one in that
tutorial versus then we get down to the
coding challenges and after we're in the
coding challenges that looks a lot more
like you'd expect it to be and but then
we also have this distinction we can
look at and the height of these graphs
notice they're on different scales so
these aren't but you can't judge based
on the height but we can see how many
people have completed a lesson but we
can also see how many times incorrect
code was submitted or people use that
code reset button so for example for a
Mufasa lesson 2 we had 114 successful
code submissions but 292 incorrect code
submissions and three times if someone
pushed that reset code button so it's
about 28 percent of all the attempts
that are made appear to be successful
and that's the kind of thing that we can
track to try to figure out whether a
lesson is too hard and to be fair it's
not a bad experience to have your code
kale hopefully we've provided good error
messages so they're learning something
as they go we hope but and then we can
see kind of the overall stats for the
site of how many times the lesson was
passed this includes the text only
lessons for this stat and then the
bottom two stats are about just the code
and the code based challenges and then
this is just if we compare looking at
the existing tutorials which the data
structures one is purely reading there's
no code in it you can see that the
completion rates here so this is people
who landed on the landing page for the
tutorial that's kind of like the table
of contents and and people who made it
through successfully completing every
tutorial every lesson within the
tutorial but then I wanted to break that
down a little bit further because I
think we're going to have a big drop-off
between people who land there and people
who get through the first lesson because
they actually have the skills for
example they they
do actually know JavaScript so they can
keep going so on this MF s lesson the
first one is reading so I'm really going
with the second lesson here to get this
set but you see that we keep and this
bump up is because not everyone will get
there through the tutorial page they
might land right into the first lesson
but if you take it from you know people
who complete the first lesson this is
that compared to people who got to the
landing page and then people who
complete the entire tutorial you're
looking at like a reasonably high a
reasonably high rate for most of these
of getting through but this lessons from
from winning on the phat landing page to
getting through the first lesson there's
a big drop-off when you switch to
JavaScript instead of the reading and
the completion rate overall is much
higher for that reading one now that
might mean that reading is easier than
coding or more of our audience once not
code challenges or Cousineau JavaScript
but it also might mean people are
interested in conceptual stuff more than
they're interested in the ipfs api is or
something like that
so this is just mostly I'm just sharing
it as a look at the kinds of data we
have access to with the new
metric-system and as opposed to
proposing what exactly is going on that
causes a specific results but just a
sense of the kinds of things we can do
now now that we've had a time to collect
a little bit of data and I think we'll
also see that the in terms of like the
visitors to different pages you know
which tutorial is getting the most
traffic that's going to change a lot
also based on the events that are
happening so in a month where somebody
runs a live event in Seattle and uses
the MF s tutorial we're gonna see a lot
more hits there than we would another
time so and that's just a taste of
something that is kind of past work but
we're resurfacing now that we have a
chance to evaluate it are we had a lot
of kind of false data being collected at
the time we were building the feature
because all of the visits from localhost
were included so it's just kind of since
then that we've been able to separate
out our local host visits from the live
production visit so now that should be
fairly clean data moving forward um
anything you wanted to chat about Joel
today I don't think
have any other big updates no for me
pretty much that cool so um I am
traveling for the next couple of weeks
and bills going to be digging into some
code some content creation while I'm out
so we're actually going to be missing
our this meeting won't happen on
September 26 or October 3rd and then
we'll be back on October 10 and so I
will update the invite in the community
calendar and I've already noted that in
the github issue for this call but I
look forward to seeing people on the
10th and as always the agenda is linked
to from the and from the meeting invite
so feel free to add any agenda item so
you will see you then thanks everybody